State Board written exam is minimum of
70% of your test so what subjects need
to be covered for cosmetology State
Board written exam 30% of Health and
Science which includes microbiology
anatomy physiology economics cosmetology
chemistry and cosmetology electricity
40% of hair care services which includes
trichology draping shampooing
conditioning massage and brushing
procedures principles of hair design
hair cutting hair styling wigs and
extensions chemical services and
consultation for chemical services and
hair colouring 15% of the test is
skincare theory and services skin
histology skin care service consultation
draping for facial services temporary
hair removal facials and makeup lasts
15% is given to nail care theory and
services nail structure manicure
procedure pedicure procedure and
artificial nails for microbiology you
need to know about bacteria viruses
parasites immunity prevention infection
control which is sanitation disinfection
and sterilization federal regulations
includes Environmental Protection Agency
EPA Food and Drug Administration FDA
Occupational Safety and Health
Administration which is OSHA universal
precautions first-aid minor burns
bleeding and eye irritation also MSDS
sheet MSDS sheet which is material
safety data sheet that is regulated by
OSHA for anatomy and physiology you need
to know Anatomy cells tissue organs
heart lungs skin for physiology skeletal
system bones of the face neck
shoulders arms hands legs and feet for
muscles muscles of the scalp muscles of
mastication mouth iron nose arms hands
legs feet neck shoulders and upper back
type of joints circulatory system blood
vascular and Lin vascular systems
endocrine system respiratory system
integumentary system which is the skin
nervous system and excretory system for
ergonomics you need to know body
positions how to hold your scissors how
to hold your body not to get injured at
the job for chemistry the test questions
are based on following subjects matter
pH scale nutrition medication compounds
mixtures product ingredients product
labeling product safety electricity
electrical current electrotherapy light
therapy for psychology which is study of
the hair properties of hair and scalp
hair shaft hair root keratinization hair
analysis porosity elasticity texture and
density hair growth energy catagen and
telogen stages of the hair growth hair
loss hair and scalp disorders hair and
scalp diseases shampooing conditioning
massage and brushing procedures hair and
scalp analysis shampooing procedure and
product selection conditioning procedure
and product selection scalp treatments
and massage four principles of hair
design you need to know elements of hair
design form line direction growth
pattern texture color principles of
balance and design and facial shapes
haircutting clan consultation desired
look face shape hair analysis lifestyle
and climate principles of haircutting
elevation or project
lines and angles cross-checking
texturising tools manual tools
electrical tools and the safety haircuts
blonde hair cut graduated layered
haircut and the combination haircut for
weeks hair enhancements and extensions
client consultation wigs and hair
enhancements composition is it human is
it synthetic wig construction is it cap
or cap less with care hair extensions
and additions chemical service
consultation chemical services include
the perming the hair relaxation and hair
color hair analysis scalp analysis PD
test which is British position test
which is also called a skin patch test
preliminary strength test which is on
the hair and desired result chemical
services chemical waving which is a perm
wave pH balance of perms perm procedure
chemical hair relaxers pH balance of
hair relaxers and relaxer procedure
hair color procedures law of color and
classification of color temporary semi
and demi-permanent hair colors permanent
colors hair Leitner's color applications
virgin color applications retouch color
correction for skin care procedure you
need to know the following theory
composition of the skin layers of the
skin nourishes the skin glands of the
skin skin types skin pigmentation which
is hyper and hypo pigmentation
conditions of the skin disorders and
diseases functions of the skin nail care
procedures nail structure composition
growth conditions disorders and diseases
procedures of manicure and pedicure
tools equipments products and supplies
massage procedures for hand arm foot and
leg massage disinfection of pedicure
Basin and tools
setup and cleanup nail tips wraps
overlays acrylics and gels and nail art